Human Multimodal perception :

Human generally rely in multimodal input. We require multiple modalities. 

Difficult to find information from noisy image, if we know what we are looking for, it becomes easy for us to find that thing. 

Topics :

1) Processing multiple signals
2) Multimodal dual task
3) Effects of discongruency in multimodal signals
4) relevance to human-computer interaction




"Human perception is designed for dealing with multimodal I/P signals" - this statement needs to be explained with the help of a figure :-

This figure is example of human neural activity as response to animal stimuli.

Only visual provides "no neural spikes". 

Auditory only - few neural spikes with auditory weak signals. 

Audio + video = neural spikes in weak signal is very much more. 

Human perception is much more "higher/better" in case of multimodal input than in the individual modality.




Super additivity = property for multimodal systems. Multimodal input stimulates the human stronger than the sum of the single individual inputs. 




Using multimodal system, Output will improve (Jacko et al., 2005). 

Advantages of multimodal system :

		1) The reaction time will decrease for user.
		2) Increased salience and prominence ( Ex: Degree of attention grabbed). 
		3) Decreased workload ( as multiple modalities will be searching for region of interest ).
		4) More robustness
		5) More naturalness/authencity ( Ex: 2 factor authentication in mobiles).
		6) Shorter task completion time because multiple modalities work.
		7) Improved Usability and user experience if multiple modalities are there
		8) May be used by certain target groups ( such as older adults, people with certain deficits, such as visaully impaired, auditory impaired). 
		9) Can be used to design new interface paradigms.





Example : Technishe Universitet, Berlin 
Spatialaudio.net/ssr = developed a multimodal system in certain virtual environment. 3D audio synthesis system + 3D virtual environment ( with visual information), they combined audio and video to form a multimodal system. 




"Welch et al 1986 said - Each modality is unique."

Ex : 

Visual system = used for detailed information ( special information ), useful for gathering complex information and special information in HCI. 

Auditory system = good for general information ( temporal information ), and those information not in view. Useful for warning, grabbing attention. 
